---
title: Learn to use Docker
layout: single
category: blog
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/2.jpg
author_profile: true
toc: true
---
Use docker as your virtual environment for your project testing.

## What is Docker?

Before we go into the world of Docker, we should know the concept of "container" first.

### [Container](https://www.docker.com/resources/what-container)

> A container is a standard unit of software that packages up code and all its dependencies so the application runs quickly and reliably from one computing environment to another. A Docker container image is a lightweight, standalone, executable package of software that includes everything needed to run an application: code, runtime, system tools, system libraries and settings.

You can find more in the website shown above in title **Container**.

## What can Docker do?

> **Docker** is a tool designed to make it easier to create, deploy, and run applications by using containers. Containers allow a developer to package up an application with all of the parts it needs, such as libraries and other dependencies, and deploy it as one package.

## Install Docker

This can be easily installed following the instructions given by [docker website](https://www.docker.com/).

## Docker usage

### Your first 'Hello world' through Docker

* Run docker.

* Run command `docker run ubuntu:18.04 /bin/echo "Hello world"` in terminal. If there's no image in your computer, docker will download one in Docker Hub.

### Communicate with Docker through command line

* Run command `docker run -i -t ubuntu:18.04 /bin/bash`
* Enjoy, and you can run `exit` or `CTRL+D` to exit your container.

### Run docker on background

* `docker run -d ubuntu:18.04 yourcommand`

* Stop: `docker stop`
* Use `docker ps` to check your container status.